# Incident Ticketing Tool
Goal: This tool is the single source of truth and only tool needed to work on [[Incident response]]. It therefore needs to support every step of the investigation, including importing the original events if there were any. It needs to be able to keep tack of all open tasks, active investigations / analyses and import results from external tools via a common format. Needs to allow for the chaotic and unknown way most cyber incidents go. Needs to support a report generation in the end. Needs to have automations whereever possible. Also must allow for a graphical and flexible representation of TODOs, where I can just move in a subplaybook whenever I have to do a repetitive task.
 
[[BLASI]] unfortunately seems to be not good enough.
 
 
## Requirements
- Aggregation (All Incidents)
	- Shows all open Incidents and other stats in one view
- Incident View (Drilldown Incident)
	- Overview Page 
		- Summarizes Key Notes of an incident
			- Incident ID
			- Incident Title
			- Description 
				- Has to summarize everything that actually happened in the incident
			- Status
				- Where do we stand?
			- Tasks
				- Open tasks / todos
					- Need to be assignable to single incident responder
			- Customer Name (Optional)
			- Key Stakeholders
				- Contact Info 
				- [[Job]] Title
				- Responsibilities
				- Current Status
					- Where do we stand with this stakeholder, what does he know, etc.
				- Open Tasks / Deliverables 
					- This needs to link back into the workflow / skilltree
	- Workbook Analys Guide Line / WIKI
        - Guide Line zum Analysieren von Things.... Domain Controller analyse
        - Easy updatable 
        - Should genretate an worklog with infos what have we done and what twas the outcome
        - Workbook creates TODOs can be assigned to different people (Kanban style overview)
        - Elements are scriptable -> Automations    
    - Tasks / TODO Tracker
		- Rough templates depending on incident type
		- Customizable workflows / subtasks
			- Possibility to add a new tree of tasks into the overall structure either fully custom or from rough templates / sub playbooks
		- Task is a single element of the overall tree
			- Assignable
			- Time completed
			- SLAs
			- Time limit
			- Description
			- Comments
			- Handover function
			- Automation possiblity e.g. Status Call automatically opens a pop up where notes can be taken and edited. Afterwards automatically communicates this summary to the customer via the Communication functionality (TODO: Would be cool to actually link to all of these pages to have a better overview in Obsidian)
		- TODOs are shared with the customer
    - Communication
		- Ideally we have everything in a single platform. This means that also all communication happens via this plattform
		- Needs multiple channels
			- Teams
			- E-Mail
			- Meeting Summaries 
    - ChatGPT
        - 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Autogenerated 
	- IOC View
        - Phasen overview to check if somewhere ein cyberkill chain something is missing  
		- Goal: Summarize all active investigations, assets, confirmed IOCs, 
		- Therefore we need to be able to work in a notebook style:
			- Draw things
			- Delete old things
			- Connect various assets
			- Add Notes
			- Write Descriptions
		- Idea: Open separate investigation workflows for each active analyses. These summarize the steps that were done, 
		--> Draw.io import (?) 
	
- Documentation
	- A nice documentation feature to get the most important timelines for attacker actions, CSIRT actions etc.
	- Also cool to document status calls and create and assign TODO during it. Something like Obsidian with an inline TODO tracker and dataview might be a cool idea
	- Also think about giving access to the customer
- User Experience
	- Quick, intuitive and easy to use web-frontend.
	- Markdown fields

## Export Functionality
Needs to automatically export key information into a reporting engine. Information to export:
- IOC View
- Incident Timeline
- Incident Description
- Analyzes results

## Import Functionality
For the tool to be really useful, it needs to be able to import alerts / incidents from various data sources. The more can be automatically included the less needs to be done while working the incident.
- Integration 
 
# TODOs
- Need a task tracker for this documentation
- Need prioritization and Nice To Have / Essential / **Skilltree-Style** Order 
- Need Mock-Ups
 